Andhra Pradesh: Opposition leaders hold meeting against government's management of Cyclone Michaung and drought

In a significant All Party Round table meeting convened at Vijayawada Dasari Bhavan on December 9, leaders from the CPI Rashtra Samithi expressed deep concern over the havoc wreaked by Cyclone Michaung in various parts of the state. The resolution highlighted the government's purported negligence over the past four years, exacerbating the impact of the cyclone on an already vulnerable infrastructure.

The roundtable meeting, attended by leaders from various parties, presented several demands, which included recognition of cyclone and drought damage as national calamities and an immediate allocation of ₹1000 crore to the state. Rigorous identification and enumeration of damaged crops to prevent irregularities, prioritising tenant farmers. Declaration of 470 mandals with low rainfall as drought-prone. Compensation of ₹40,000 per acre for food crops, ₹75,000 for commercial crops, and ₹1 lakh per acre for horticultural crops, aligned with current production costs and application of crop insurance to all crops.


COP28 climate talks: Environment minister hails India's conservation efforts

Environment minister cited the Sunderbans, the world's largest contiguous mangrove forest, as a prime example of coexistence with nature.

Delivering a statement at the Mangrove Alliance for Climate Ministerial Meeting during COP28 in Dubai, he talked about the Mangrove Initiative for Shoreline Habitats and Tangible Incomes (MISHTI), unveiled in the 2023-24 budget, focuses on mangrove plantations along coastlines and salt pans.

ISRO Recruitment 2023: Apply for 54 Technician B posts at isro.gov.in



Russia to hold 2024 presidential voting in areas annexed from Ukraine too? Kyiv warns

Adobe ushers in a new era of creativity for all; announces generative AI innovations at Adobe MAX 2023


How can IIT Kanpur's ‘artificial rain’ help curb Delhi pollution issue? Explained

Cloud seeding is an artificial method used to increase rainfall by introducing certain substances into clouds that serves various purposes.

Over the past few days, the pollution in Delhi has been worsening, causing significant problems for its residents and shrouding other parts of northern India, including cities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and more, in a toxic haze. As of 5 pm on Wednesday, the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi stood at a 'very poor' level of 398.

To address this issue, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur has proposed the idea of "artificial rain" to reduce pollution levels in the national capital. This project has been in development since 2018, and the institute conducted trials in July of this year, as reported by the Economic Times. The researchers have secured the necessary permissions from government authorities, including the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), to carry out cloud seeding for this purpose.


Aditya-L1 mission: ISRO activates second instrument on solar spacecraft

Seven out of 10 highest-paid CEOs in India belong to IT sector: Know their salaries

Hi Nanna box office collection day 3: Nani-Mrunal Thakur’s relationship drama mints Rs 16 crore, witnesses 72% increase in collections


What happens to your body when you stare at the screen daily for more than 8 hours?

Adobe ushers in a new era of creativity for all; announces generative AI innovations at Adobe MAX 2023

Adobe MAX showcases breakthrough generative AI innovations, including three major new models in Adobe's Firefly family.

Adobe MAX 2023 saw the unveiling of Adobe’s latest ground-breaking generative AI innovations, including three major new models in Adobe’s Firefly family of creative generative AI models that generate content safe for commercial use. Building on the momentum of Firefly’s general availability and the launch of Adobe GenStudio, the company showcased AI innovations that are redefining creative workflows and enterprise content supply chains.



Bengaluru Tech Summit 2023 Concludes with Unprecedented Success

The flagship annual tech event of the Silicon Valley of the East concluded on Friday, logging 3.16 virtual visitors and a footfall of 50,000 expo visitors over its three-day run.

Addressing the media, on Friday, Karnataka’s IT, BT and S&T minister Priyank Kharge, pointed out that the Bengaluru Tech Summit (BTS) 2023 saw participation by 553 exhibitors, out of which 228 were startups.

During the summit, the Government of Karnataka (GoK) signed three MoUs with ecosystem partners. The US-India Business Council and the Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS), Gok signed an MoU to bolster collaboration and communication cha...

GoK also launched some 37 products from early stage startups that encompassed a wide array of tech solutions in domains ranging from IT and deep tech to cyber security, gaming and healthcare, among many others.

Ayodhya Ram Temple's construction nearing completion of the sanctum sanctorum

The chairman of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir Construction Committee, Nripendra Misra, announced on Sunday that the consecration (Prana Prathistsha) of Lord Rama is scheduled for January 22 next year after reviewing the ongoing construction of the Ram Mandir. 

The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has set the date for the enthronement of Ram Lalla at the sanctum-sanctorum of the Ram Temple. The ceremony is scheduled to take place between noon and 12:45 pm on January 22 next year. For the event, the trust has extended invitations to 4,000 saints from various sects. 

From January 14 to January 22, Ayodhya will celebrate the Amrit Mahautsav. Additionally, a 1008 Hundi Mahayagya will be organized, during which thousands of devotees will be provided with meals.


Dhiraj Sahu raids: Total cash haul reaches ₹318 crore, counting still on

The amount of cash recovered in income tax raids at premises linked to Congress Rajya Sabha MP Dhiraj Sahu has reached ₹318 crore. In the biggest-ever recovery of cash, the amount is expected to increase as counting for several bags full of cash is still going on in Odisha.

The previous highest record of cash recovery was held by a Kanpur-based businessman from whom cash amounting to ₹257 crore had been recovered in 2019.

Srinagar records coldest night of season at minus 4.6 degrees Celsius

Srinagar on Friday recorded its coldest temperature of the season, dropping to minus 4.6 degrees Celsius, according to officials on Saturday.

According to the meteorological office, the weather is expected to stay generally cloudy but mainly dry until December 11. Additionally, there is a forecast of a decrease in the night temperature by a few degrees

The meteorological office has mentioned a possibility of light rain or snowfall at isolated places in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir from December 12 to 15.

'I am pumped': PV Sindhu seeks Prakash Padukone's helping hand in quest for Paris 2024 glory

No decision on Rohit Sharma’s captaincy for T20 World Cup and Hardik Pandya likely to play against Afghanistan in January

NASA and ISRO collaborating to build a space station together?


<a href="mailto:someone@example.com">Email us at: someone@example.com</a>
            <nav>&copyThe India Times</nav>


Retail inflation at 3-month high of 5.55% in November

India's retail inflation rose to 5.55% in November from 4.87% in October due to higher food prices, according to government data. The figures are within the Reserve Bank of India's comfort zone. Inflation had been declining since August. The rate of price rise in the food basket was 8.7% in November. The RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.4% for 2023-24. The inflation had peaked at 7.44% in July this year amid soaring prices of vegetables during the monsoon season. Since then, it has steadily declined.

The Reserve Bank of India has been tasked by the government to ensure retail inflation remains at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side.

In the monetary policy announced last week, the RBI projected the CPI inflation at 5.4 per cent for 2023-24, with a reading of 5.6 per cent in the third quarter and 5.2 per cent in the last quarter.


Supreme Court upholds the abrogation of Article 370, says it is a ‘temporary provision’


A Constitution Bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) D.Y. Chandrachud on Monday unanimously upheld the Central government’s 2019 decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution which conferred special status on the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Pointing out that Article 370 is a ‘temporary provision’, the Bench said that it was enacted due to wartime conditions in the State and was meant to serve a transitional purpose. The court held that J&K did not retain any internal sovereignty after its integration and that the concurrence of the State Government was not required to apply the Indian Constitution to the State. 
In light of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s submission that the government plans to restore J&K’s statehood as soon as possible, the court did not adjudicate upon the validity of the reorganisation of the State into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh . However, it upheld the carving out of Ladakh as a Union Territory.

The court also directed the Election Commission of India to take steps to conduct elections to the J&K Legislative Assembly by September 30, 2024. 